README.md, before:

# VCE School Performance

Explores VCE study scores by school. It produces a plotly dash web app that allows:

- Comparing how schools perform over time, eg via their median study score
- A ranking of the "top-N" schools
- A map to see how VCE results change across Melbourne/the state

## To-Do

- [ ] Go through the fuzzy match of school names & correct the mistakes
  - There are quite a few unfortunately :(

## Data

### Raw Files

The data used for this project resides in `raw_data/`. If you want to reproduce it from scratch then you'll need to download it from: https://www.vcaa.vic.edu.au/administration/research-and-statistics/Pages/SeniorSecondaryCompletion.aspx

Some notes;

- the wayback machine will be required to get all of the history
- `postcompletiondata-schools-2014-2017.xlsx` has been manually created by copying the contents of the `pdf` files into a spreadsheet
- I think data for 2012 & 2013 should also exist. I can't find it but would love to add it in

You'll also need school profile & school location data from ACARA:

- https://acara.edu.au/docs/default-source/default-document-library/school-profile-2008-2022.xlsx?sfvrsn=d40e4c07_0
- https://acara.edu.au/docs/default-source/default-document-library/school-location-2008-2022.xlsx?sfvrsn=fc4e4c07_0

### Building an Analytical Dataset

To create a cleaned dataset for analysis run:

```sh
poetry run python data_loader.py
```

This merges all years into one, drops a bunch of columns that aren't of interest and merges the VCE results with the school profiles information. It will produce a file called `vce_school_results_analysis_dataset.csv`.

## Run the Web App

Start up the app:

```sh
poetry run python app.py
```

In a browser, navigate to `http://127.0.0.1:8050/`

Commit message:

Join ACARA to VCE Results using a manually created join key (#7)
* Update to use the manually created joining key

* Update to use the manually created joining key

* Fix typo

* Update analysis dataset after rebuilding with the manual join key

README.md, after:

# VCE School Performance

Explores VCE study scores by school. It produces a plotly dash web app that allows:

- Comparing how schools perform over time, eg via their median study score
- A ranking of the "top-N" schools
- A map to see how VCE results change across Melbourne/the state``

## Data

### Raw Files

The data used for this project resides in `raw_data/`. If you want to reproduce it from scratch then you'll need to download it from: https://www.vcaa.vic.edu.au/administration/research-and-statistics/Pages/SeniorSecondaryCompletion.aspx

Some notes;

- the wayback machine will be required to get all of the history
- `postcompletiondata-schools-2014-2017.xlsx` has been manually created by copying the contents of the `pdf` files into a spreadsheet
- I think data for 2012 & 2013 should also exist. I can't find it but would love to add it in

You'll also need school profile & school location data from ACARA:

- https://acara.edu.au/docs/default-source/default-document-library/school-profile-2008-2022.xlsx?sfvrsn=d40e4c07_0
- https://acara.edu.au/docs/default-source/default-document-library/school-location-2008-2022.xlsx?sfvrsn=fc4e4c07_0

### Building an Analytical Dataset

To create a cleaned dataset for analysis run:

```sh
poetry run python data_loader.py
```

This merges all years into one, drops a bunch of columns that aren't of interest and merges the VCE results with the school profiles information. It will produce a file called `vce_school_results_analysis_dataset.csv`.

### Notes on the Data

Of course, OF COURSE, the Victorian and federal governments (ACARA) don't name schools the same thing. As such a lookup table has been manually created to map the Victorian school name to the ACARA name. This is required to join the VCE results to information such as the school location, school's ICSEA, etc.

This is by no means perfect so if you find errors please raise an issue or better yet raise a PR with the proposed fix.

## Running the Web App

A [mapbox token](https://docs.mapbox.com/help/getting-started/access-tokens/) is required for the `Schools Map` page to work. Create a token and set the environment variable:

```bash
export MAPBOX_TOKEN={your token}
```

Build the environment:

```bash
poetry install
```

Start up the app:

```sh
poetry run python app.py
```

In a browser, navigate to `http://127.0.0.1:8050/`
